# 88 Fighting
88 Fighting is a traditional 2D, sprite-based fighting game themed around the 88 Rising music label and its associated artists. Mechanically, 88 Fighting draws heavy inspiration from the high intensity arcade fighters of the CPS2-CPS3 era such as the *Street Fighter Alpha* and *Capcom VS* series with an emphasis on fluid, expressive movement and deep combat systems. The game's theming and style is a love letter to not just the 88 Rising brand, but Asian American music and culture as a whole, taking cues from hip-hop/R&B/EDM scenes, west coast street culture, and traditional Asian martial arts.
### Core Features
- **Combat** - 88 Fighting's core gameplay is centered around high-speed, ground-to-air combat mixed with robust, free-flowing movement. The game uses a gatling-based combo system complimented by a breadth of options for movement and defense, resulting in a combat pacing and flow reminiscent of games like *Tatsunoko vs. Capcom* and *Street Fighter X Tekken*.
- **Meter System** - core combat in 88 Fighting is defined by its unique approach to resource management. While many other fighting games use a single resource to control access to high-value combat/movement options, 88 Fighting categorizes its high-value options as either offensive utility or defensive utility, with each category being access controlled by its own dedicated resource.
   - *Cloud Meter* - manages defensive options
   - *Madness Meter* - manages offensive options
- **Graphics** - 88 Fighting will feature arcade-style pixel graphics designed with the visual features and limitations of CPS3/Dreamcast era hardware. Due to the game's source material, 88 Fighting's visual style will be heavily informed by Asian American cultural imagery from the late 2010s and early 2020s, resulting in a retro-esque visual feel with a modern, street-inspired twist.
- **Character Skins** - Similar 2D fighters almost always forgo the inclusion of unique character skins due to the apparent difficulty and time-cost of redrawing sprite animations by hand. 88 Fighting's art direction and animation pipeline is designed to minimize these issues such that unique skins are a manageable development task.
- **Online Play** - 88 Fighting will support online matches with rollback netcode implemented. Players will each have a unique online profile with customizable cosmetic options and an online match ranking. Additionally, players will be able to friend other players they meet online with whom they can then message and play against privately.
- **Sound Design** - Being a game themed around musical artists, 88 Fighting stylistically will be heavily dependent on its soundtrack and audio. The game's soundtrack will largely feature both original and remixed versions of music released by the 88 Rising artists represented in the game. Characters in the game will be voiced using archived voice-lines from their real-life counterparts and referential sound effects that embody the work and personality of their real-life counterparts.
### Platform
88 Fighting is currently being planned for release on PC with support for both Windows and Linux distributions with the possibility of PS5, XBox Series S/X, and Nintendo Switch releases based on funding, market feedback, and publishing agreements. 88 Fighting's primary platform will be PC.
### Minimum Viable Product
- **Reveal** - Our goal for 88 Fighting is to have source-side (technical) development be around 50-60% complete prior to the start of the game's marketing campaign. This means UI functionality needs to be in a complete state, and core combat needs to be in a complete or near-complete state, with functioning support for versus mode, training mode, and control customization. Source-side development during the marketing phase of the game will focus primarily on online functionality. Asset-side (creative) development should be at least 30% complete, meaning all UI assets need to be in a finalized or near-finalized state, and all animations for at least four characters, each with two skin variants (can be palette swaps if time constraints become an issue), and at least three stages need to be in a finalized or near-finalized state. Some amount of archived voice-work needs to be implemented for every character, and sound effects need to be implemented for every in-game action (sound effects do not need to be final). Soundtrack can be primarily existing 88 Rising songs in their original form but needs to feature at least one remixed song. Asset-side development during the marketing phase of the game will focus primarily on developing the rest of the roster and completing sound design.
- **Release** - On release, 88 Fighting must be functionally complete with every game-mode specified previously including online being in a completed state. Online DB Servers must be up and running. Sound design must be complete with at least 5 remixed tracks. The game needs to include at least 10 playable characters fully voiced with complete and polished animations as well as 8 stages. Additional characters, stages, features, and music may be developed and released later in the form of downloadable content.

### Team
88 Fighting is currently being developed by a small team of talented individuals in both technical and creative spaces, each with a passion for games, the FGC, and the 88 Rising brand.

- **Satyo "Saxojin" Wasistho** - Game Director, Lead Programmer, Concept Artist, Supplementary Game Artist
- **Toby "DJ Chopstix" Lin** - Game Designer, Business and Marketing Director, Supplementary Programmer
- **Andrew "Eighttrix" Girgis** - Game Designer, Supplementary Programmer
- **Tad Dirigo** - Character and Combat Designer, Animation Reference
- **Meilia "Catmikaze" Tecson** - Lead Game Artist, Concept Artist